# cloud-shadow-attacks
Shadow Attacks based on Password Reuses A Quantitative Empirical Analysis.

INTRODUCTION

Password-based authentication [1] is one of the most widely used methods to authenticate a user before granting accesses to secured websites. The wide adoption of password-based authentication is the result of its low cost and simplicity: a user can enter his or her passwords anywhere by a keyboard or a touch screen without any other extra devices. The popularity of passwords and the proliferation of websites, however, lead to a concern on password reuses between accounts on different websites [2] or even on the same websites. Moreover, the recent numerous high-profile password leakage events did not make the password situation better, and we ask the questions: What do password reuses mean to accounts between websites and even the ones within the same websites? What is the implication of a compromised website or account to others? How easy are shadow attacks, i.e., an adversary compromises an account utilizing the passwords of other accounts that are either on the same site or from other sites? To find out the answers, in this paper we analyze password reuses and shadow attacks empirically. It is well-known that passwords are usually reused by a user across different websites [2][3], yet little work hasbeen devoted to understanding passwords being shared among multiple accounts of the same user on the same website. Since both password reuses within the same website and across multiple ones can enable shadow attacks, in this paper, we analyze the both scenarios:
(i) a user creates accounts with the same password on the same websites, which we term as Intra-Site Password Reuses (ISPR), and (ii) a user creates accounts with the same password across different websites, which we term as Cross-Site Password Reuses (CSPR). While having the same passwords for multiple accounts is simple and convenient to users, it raises security concerns, e.g., if a password on one website is leaked, an adversary can have an enhanced chance to crack the other accounts of the same user, regardless of whether the accounts are on the same or different websites. We note that account ownership can be identified by the registered email addresses. As a result, we argue that users’ accounts with passwords of higher security level could be relatively easily compromised, given the knowledge of the passwords at a lower security level, e.g., web forums. Although the password reuses are known to researchers for years, a large-scale in-depth empirical analysis of password reuses is still absent so far. Das et al. [2] leverage 6,077 distinct accounts to answer the question of How often does a user reuse the same password across multiple sites? Our work is along the same line. Yet we conduct a first-of-its-kind in-depth empirical study on web password reuses (both ISPR and CSPR) at a much larger scale. We leverage a collection of more than 70million real-world leaked web passwords in cleartext to investigate the fine-grained patterns and threats of password reuses. These leaked passwords are from four main-stream websites with millions of users in China: CSDN [4], Tianya [5], Duduniu [6], 7k7k [7]1. Luckily, two websites allow users to register multiple accounts using the same email address. This provides a valuable opportunity to study the ISPR, which has never been studied in the literature [2], to the best of our knowledge.
In total, we have gathered accounts of 2,671,443 distinct users (based on their email addresses) each of whom has at least two accounts on the same website (for ISPR analysis), 2,306,055 distinct users each of whom has accounts on at least two websites (for CSPR analysis), and 350,849 distinct users that are the intersection of the above two sets. Based on the above users’ accounts, we answer the following questions in this paper:
Q1: What percentages of users have reused their passwords among their intra-site and cross-site accounts?
Q2: What are the differences between the CSPR and ISPR passwords? Are their strength the same?
Q3: What are the differences between reused passwords and all passwords? Are reused passwords stronger or weaker than any passwords?
Q4: For all passwords belonging to the same user, if they are not exactly the same, do they share similar patterns?
Q5: How much can we improve the efficiency of password guessing with the aforementioned findings?
These questions are important, because they provide insights through analyzing the effects of shadow attacks on passwords: given a user’s password(s) on a website,
how likely can an adversary crack other account(s) of the same user?
The main contribution of this paper is that we analyze a large number of users’ accounts to understand the threat of web password reuses (both ISPR and CSPR) and obtain a set of interesting results. Interesting findings include (but not limited to) the following:
_ For the users who have accounts on different websites, according to our research, 33:16 _ 8:91% of users use the same passwords across two sites (CSPR). This percentage is lower than the ones (43- 51%) reported in the literature of Das et al. [2], because we took an conservative approach to process data and may have excluded a few reused passwords. For the users who have multiple accounts on a website, in our research, 59:72% of them reused their passwords (ISPR). This percentage is higher than the upper bound of the CSPR rate reported by Das et al. This suggests that users tend to reuse their passwords on same websites than across multiple websites.
_ We further investigate the security strength of the reused passwords in terms of how easily they can be guessed correctly by an adversary with dictionaries. With the same metrics (e.g., _-guesswork, _-workfactor) used by Bonneau [8], we find that the reused passwords across sites are stronger (i.e., harder to guess) against online password guessing attacks than all passwords, while intra-site reused passwords perform similarly to all passwords against online password guessing attacks. When we conducted offline password guessing attacks, all reused passwords perform weaker than all passwords.
_ Even though some users use different passwords for their accounts across different websites, their passwords are sometimes created using the same building blocks. For example, among the users who use different passwords on the four websites, 15.36% of them add prefix to create passwords and 9.03% of
them add suffix.
